# Meeting Minutes #20 – Progress & Milestone Planing

**Date:** Monday, July 28, 2025  
**Time:** 9:30 AM – 12:30 PM EST  
**Link:** [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/thw-hymo-eah)

## Attendees

- Jola-Moses  
- Karim Makie  
- Muqadsa Tahir  
- Omnia Mustafa Abdulgadir  
- Robel Mengsteab  

**Omer** sent a notice of absence

---

## 1. Meeting Purpose & Structure

The purpose of this meeting was to:

- Check in on individual task progress
- Finalize outstanding deliverables where possible  
- Begin planning how the team will communicate results for Milestone 4  

---

## 2. Discussion & Outcomes

### Recap Summary

Each team member shared updates on their assigned tasks:

- **Jola, Robel, Karim**: Revalidated outputs and discussed key findings  
- **Muqadsa**: Shared progress on repository cleanup
- **Omnia**: Continued work on the presentation slides  

The team discussed the potential value of a **mock presentation**, proposing a session
on **Wednesday** to help finalize the presenter.

---

### Action Points

- Jola to prepare one consolidated set of findings will be produced, combining
  triangulated insights (from Robel’s document) and divergence
  (from the manual coding analysis)
- Karim and Jola will complete detailed notes for the “Results and Findings”
  slide, aligning it with the presentation guide and Evan’s feedback, enabling  
  Omnia to finalize the slide today
- Karim will present during Tuesday’s Milestone 4 check-in; all team members are
  expected to make at least one suggestion in the [“Communicating Results” document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JSCdl9igOfjjDm2-Rjlf4L705YOR_THg5vKwLt25fK4/edit?tab=t.0)
- Muqadsa will complete repository cleanup by Tuesday, ahead of the July 31  
  presentation  
- Robel and Jola will prepare for a mock presentation on Wednesday, during which
  the final presenter will be selected  

---

### Next Steps

- **Karim & Jola**: Finalize notes for the “Results and Findings” slide  
- **Omnia**: Complete the slide deck once notes are in  
- **All Members**: Add at least one suggestion to the ["Communicating Results" doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JSCdl9igOfjjDm2-Rjlf4L705YOR_THg5vKwLt25fK4/edit?tab=t.0)
- **Muqadsa**: Finalize repo cleanup by Tuesday  
- **Jola & Robel**: Lead preparation for Wednesday’s mock presentation  
- ⏳ **Team**: Decide on final presenter during mock session  
