<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->
# Findings

## 1. Digital Divide Persists as a Foundational Barrier

### Affordability

**Finding:**
Affordability emerged as the most dominant barrier, cutting across device
ownership (e.g., smartphones), assistive technology (e.g., screen readers
costing over \$1,000), and digital training (e.g., \$2–3/hour).
This was especially pronounced among rural, female, and unemployed populations.

**Implication:**
It reflects systemic economic exclusion. The inability to afford tools isn’t a
one-time hurdle, but a persistent condition that keeps PWDs disconnected
long-term, even when “low-cost” options are available.

---

### Connectivity: The Coverage–Usage Paradox

**Finding:**
Only 28.5% of SSA is connected. Despite increasing mobile coverage, barriers
such as expensive data and low digital uptake persist. Connectivity issues
intersected with geography and gender.

**Implication:**
This reveals a disconnect between infrastructure availability and practical
usage. Physical access does not guarantee digital inclusion.

---

### Device Access & Service Availability

**Finding:**
Major telecoms failed to stock accessible or affordable devices. Staff often
redirected customers to basic feature phones. Even when tools were available,
users lacked awareness or support.

**Implication:**
Exclusion happens in the everyday infrastructure of access—the shops, staff, and
systems that mediate device acquisition.

---

### Intersectionality

**Finding:**
Women with disabilities were significantly less likely to own mobile phones,
access the internet, or use assistive technologies. These barriers were
especially severe among rural women.

**Implication:**
When disability intersects with gender, geography, and poverty, the effects
are multiplicative. These layered vulnerabilities shape both the likelihood of
exclusion and the depth of its consequences.

---

## 2. Skills Gaps Create “Access Illusions”

While infrastructure and tools may be available, the absence of foundational
skills and inclusive training systems creates a false sense of access.

---

### Digital Literacy

**Finding:**
Many PWDs lack even basic digital skills. Even telecom/service staff are often
unaware of assistive tech.

**Implication:**
Access exists only in theory. Digital inclusion requires a whole-system literacy
approach.

---

### Training Needs

**Finding:**
Skill deficits stem from early educational exclusion, inaccessible learning
spaces, and lack of adapted training programs.

**Implication:**
Lack of access is mistakenly framed as individual failure. The illusion arises
when the system is inaccessible from the start.

---

### Mobile Internet Readiness

**Finding:**
Even among PWDs with devices, usage is extremely low (e.g., <100MB/month).

**Implication:**
Presence of mobile access ≠ readiness to use it. Adoption metrics must be paired
with comprehension and confidence.

---

### Intersectionality

**Finding:**
Women and rural PWDs face deeper skill deficits due to compounding factors like
poverty and gendered exclusion.

**Implication:**
Access illusions are especially dangerous at the margins. They conceal the
extent of exclusion by averaging over inequity.

---

## 3. Inclusive Design Remains Exceptional Despite Demonstrated Potential

### Interface Barriers

**Finding:**
Usability issues—such as unlabeled icons, poor contrast, and incompatibility
with screen readers—were common at critical interaction points.

**Implication:**
Exclusion often happens at the micro-level of interaction. Small design flaws
cause macro-level exclusion.

---

### Inclusive Tools

**Finding:**
Technologies like JAWS, Seeing AI, Google Relate, and HearZA show the power of
inclusive tools.

**Implication:**
Inclusive tools remain siloed. Scattered efforts are not enough—systemic
inclusive design is needed.

---

### AI Bias and Exclusionary Defaults

**Finding:**
Bias in AI systems (e.g., lack of African language support, inaccessible
datasets) contributes to algorithmic exclusion.

**Implication:**
Exclusion is baked into systems by default when inclusivity is not built into
design and datasets.

---

## 4. Policy Exists, But Implementation Is Weak and Uneven

### Policy-Practice Gap

**Finding:**
Digital inclusion laws often exist only on paper (e.g., Rwanda, South Africa),
with poor real-world outcomes.

**Implication:**
Without accountability, standards, or funding, policies cannot produce
structural change.

---

### The Private Sector

**Finding:**
Telecoms and startups show leadership in inclusion when strategically motivated
(e.g., scholarships, accessible websites).

**Implication:**
Corporate action fills gaps but creates patchy progress due to lack of
coordination or national strategy.

---

## 5. Social Exclusion Reinforces Systemic Barriers

### Data Invisibility

**Finding:**
Disability-disaggregated data is often missing or flawed due to poor sampling
and methodology.

**Implication:**
Invisibility in data perpetuates invisibility in service. Robust, inclusive
data is foundational.

---

### Representation Gaps

**Finding:**
PWDs are rarely in decision-making roles in tech sectors.

**Implication:**
Without representation, exclusion is embedded by default. Inclusive design
requires inclusive leadership.

---

### Stigma and Discrimination

**Finding:**
Stigma—especially for rural women with disabilities—remains a major silent barrier.

**Implication:**
Cultural norms must be addressed for true inclusion. Infrastructure alone isn’t enough.

---

### Siloed Collaborations

**Finding:**
Stakeholders often operate in silos, limiting program scale and sustainability.

**Implication:**
Systemic reform requires cross-sector coordination linking grassroots, policy,
and private sector actors.

---

## 6. Informal Networks Bridge Gaps Left by Formal Networks

### Community & Peer Networks

**Finding:**
PWDs often rely on informal peer networks for mentorship, training, and access
to tools. These evolve into structured initiatives (e.g., Urumuri Association).

**Implication:**
Policymakers must recognize and support grassroots networks as legitimate actors
in building inclusive systems.

---
